## Materials and research methods used in this study

- Zirconium Copper (ZrCu) and Zirconium Titanium (ZrTi) alloys,
- nanoindentation of specifically prepared, polished metal samples in the form
  of thin coins. Indentation was performed on each sample in a matrix of 15×15
  or 10×10 points in distances ranging from 5 to 20 um, force applied ranging
  from 25mN to 200mN.
- data output from nanoindentation machine *CSM Instruments NHT²* comes as
  `.TXT` file and contains calculations of 21 parameters for each indentation
  point.

## Analysis Methods and Results

I have developed a parser for the output files generated by the CSM Instruments
NHT² nanoindentation machine. Initially, I attempted to use classification
techniques to analyze the data. However, after experimenting with decision
trees, I realized that clustering would be more suitable for this particular
case since the data is unlabeled.

In order to effectively cluster the data, I looked for an ideal clustering
algorithm capable of handling clusters of varying sizes. This is important
because one phase may be significantly smaller compared to another phase.
Additionally, the clustering algorithm should be able to handle different
cluster shapes since the phases can vary in this aspect as well. Ideally, the
clustering algorithm should not require the number of clusters to be specified
in advance. However, the researcher should also have the flexibility to manually
adjust the number of clusters if they have prior knowledge or suspicions about
the expected number of groups in a sample.

### Performed clustering methods

Methods I tried with results and complete description:

- [Hierarchical clustering (successful)](Hierarchical_clustering)
- [KMeans clustering (semi-successful)](KMeans_clustering)
- [ChatGPT clustering (not successful)](Other_methods#chatgpt-clustering)
- [OPTICS clustering (not successful)](Other_methods#optics-clustering)
